# OTTR Reports

This action runs either spelling, url, or quiz format checks in an [OTTR course](https://github.com/jhudsl/OTTR_Template).

## main.yml

This GitHub Actions (GHA) workflow, "Testing ottr-reports", performs a series of checks on pull requests made to the main branch and can also be manually triggered using the workflow_dispatch event.

It is composed of four jobs: `get_branch`, `spell-check`, `urls-check`, and `quiz-format`:

1. `get_branch` Job

Purpose: Determines the branch name that triggered the workflow and makes it available for subsequent jobs.

**Steps:**
1. Executes a shell command to extract the branch name from `GITHUB_REF` environment variable
2. Stores it in the `GITHUB_OUTPUT` for use in later steps.


2. `spell-check` Job

Note: This job waits for the `get_branch` job to complete successfully before starting.

Purpose: Checks spelling in the repository.

Steps: 
1. Fetches the repository's content 
2. Uses a custom action to check spelling, configured with parameters like `check_type`, `error_min`, and the branch name extracted in the `get_branch` job.
3. Displays the path to the spelling report, the contents of the report, and the number of detected errors.


3. `urls-check` Job

Purpose: Verifies that URLs in the repository are valid.

Steps:
1. Fetches the repository's content.
2. Uses the same custom action for checking, but with the `check_type` set to URLs, and it's configured to allow for a minimum of 0 errors.
3. Shows the path to the URL check report, its contents, and the error count.


4. `quiz-format` Job

Purpose: Checks the formatting of quizzes in the repository.

Steps:
1. Checks out the repository's content.
2. Uses the custom action with `check_type` set to `quiz_format`, and similar to URLs check, it's set to tolerate a minimum of 0 errors.
3. Outputs the path to the quiz format report, its content, and the number of errors detected.


## report-maker.yml

This GitHub Actions (GHA) workflow, "Run error checker", runs checks based on specific inputs and handles commenting on pull requests with the results of these checks.

It is composed of two jobs: `status-update` and `error-check`:

1. `status-update` Job

Steps:
1. Based on the `check_type` input, it sets variables for the error name and ignore file path.
2. Captures the current time and commit ID for later use 
3. Uses an external action (`peter-evans/find-comment@v3`) to find an existing comment by github-actions[bot] that includes the specified error name.
4. If a comment is found, it updates the comment to indicate that the check is being re-run, using the time and commit ID captured earlier.


2. `error-check` Job

Similar initial steps as `status-update` job to declare error names based on check_type.

Steps:
1. Checks out the code from a branch named `preview-${{ github.event.pull_request.number }}`
2. Executes the actual check using a custom action `jhudsl/ottr-reports@main`
3. Captures additional details such as the link to the ignore file and the URL for the error report.
4. Uses an external action (`peter-evans/find-comment@v3`) to find an existing comment by github-actions[bot] that includes the specified error name.
5. If check failed, a comment is made or updated to indicate the check did not fully run. 
6. If there are more errors than allowed (error_min), it comments with details about the errors and links to the report. Conversely, if the errors are within the acceptable range, it updates or posts a comment indicating there are no errors.
7. Commit the report file generated by the checks into a branch. It also counts the number of errors and stores this count for subsequent steps.
8. Based on the number of errors relative to error_min, different actions are taken. If there are too many errors, it fails the job; otherwise, it acknowledges the acceptable error count.
9. Comments are made or updated on the pull request to reflect the outcome of the checks, providing feedback directly in the PR discussion.


## Inputs

## `check_type`

**Required** the type of check to be done. Either `spelling`, `urls`, or `quiz_format`.

## `error_min`

What number of errors should make this check fail? Default is `0`.

## `gh_pat`

You must pass a [Github Secret](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets) that has repository privileges that this action can use.

## Outputs

A report called one of the following:
'check_reports/spell_check_results.tsv', 'check_reports/url_checks.csv', or 'check_reports/question_error_report.tsv',

## Example usage

For spelling checks:
```
uses: jhudsl/ottr-reports/.github/workflows/report-maker.yml@main
with:
  check_type: spelling
  error_min: 3
  gh_pat: secrets.GH_PAT
```

For broken url checks:
```
uses: jhudsl/ottr-reports/.github/workflows/report-maker.yml@main
with:
  check_type: urls
  error_min: 0
  gh_pat: secrets.GH_PAT
```

For quiz_format checks:
```
uses: jhudsl/ottr-reports/.github/workflows/report-maker.yml@main
with:
  check_type: quiz_format
  error_min: 0
  gh_pat: secrets.GH_PAT
```
